Void Patrol Clone

This is a project to replicate some of the elements of the game
Space Wing: Void Patrol from takeAplay.net (http://www.takaplay.net)
in a stand alone program. The program can be used to learn better
piloting skills and to test out game ideas, but at this time is is not
a game that it is much fun to play.

This Project is Copyright 2008-2010 Steven Barker (BlckKnght@gmail.com).
It may be used, modified and/or redistributed under the terms of the MIT
License, see the COPYRIGHT file or the following web site for details:
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

The project was inspired by Space Wing: Void Patrol which is Copyright
takAplay.net (webmaster@takeaplay.net), but no code or art from that
game has been used.


Dependencies

This project is written in Python. To run it you will need a copy
of the Python interpreter which can be downloaded for most operating
systems from the Python website (http://www.python.org/download).

The game also requires a version of the Pygame library that is
compatible with your version of Python. Pygame can be downloaded
from the Pygame website (http://pygame.org/download.shtml).


How to Play

Run the program by executing the file "main.py" in the "src" directory.
You'll see a hex grid displayed on the screen, with your ship located in the
center (shown by a white triangle).  All of the locations you can move to
will have one or more angled lines drawn on them, showing the possible facings
your ship can reach. When you ship has gained some speed, you'll also see the
potential locations you'll be able to go to on the following turn (in a
lighter color).

Your ship can be controlled by pressing keys on the keyboard using either
of two systems:

First, the keyboard shortcuts used on the regular Void Patrol site will work:

         U                     I                     O
(thrust forwards+left)   (boost forwards)   (thrust forwards+right)

         J                     K                     L
    (turn left)         (thrust forwards)      (turn right)

         X                  Q or ESC               Enter
  (cancel orders)       (quit the program)   (advance to next turn)


Alternatively, a similar scheme using the keyboard number pad can be used
(but notice that the keys for boosts and forwards thrusts are swapped).

        NP7                   NP8                   NP9
(thrust forwards+left)  (thrust forwards)   (thrust forwards+right)

        NP4                   NP5                   NP6
    (turn left)          (boost forwards)      (turn right)

        NP0                 Q or ESC              KPEnter
  (cancel orders)       (quit the program)   (advance to next turn)


Several of the function keys on the keyboard can be used to trigger
special functions:

F1 - Switch to a Badger-like fighter with maneuvering code 4S1(3)
F2 - Switch to a Javelin-like fighter with maneuvering code 6S2(4)
F3 - Switch to a Sparrowhawk-like fighter with maneuvering code 4D1(3)
F4 - Switch to a Lone Wolf-like fighter with maneuvering code 5D2(4)

F5 - Launch a 5 thrust "smart" missile
F6 - Launch a 6 thrust "smart" missile
F7 - Launch a 7 thrust "smart" missile
F8 - Launch a 8 thrust "smart" missile

F9  - Launch a 7 thrust "berserk" missile
F10 - Launch a 9 thrust "berserk" missile

F12 - Recenter the display near to the fighter and missiles

All of the fighter switching commands will move the ship back to the
starting position at the center of the screen. Missiles will also appear
there, and will seek on the player's ship until they hit it.

Missiles will be drawn with their starting and ending velocities shown by
extra lines on the hex map, as this makes it easier to see how they are
attempting an intercept.


To Do

This program is a work in progress. Feedback is appreciated!

Here are some of the things planned for improving the game:

Make it possible to move the viewport so that the fighter and missiles
are always on the screen. - Partially done!

Mines which can thrust in any direction (with no turning required).

New graphics to show missile threat envelopes.

VP style guns, though perhaps only for point defense.

Kinetic weapons which are launched with significant starting velocity,
but which can maneuver only a little bit, like mines.

Missile fuel usage.

Fighter fuel useage.

Fighter damage and HP.

Flares, decoys, ECM and ECCM.

Multiplayer! (Probably hotseat at first.)